---
layout: post
---

It's always fun to post new pictures with the fancy filters on Instagram and updates about your life on Facebook. People like to know what's happening and other people like to tell their story. But what the people are unaware of is the sheer amount of personal data they end up posting on the internet. It is astounding. And we know that anything on the internet, stays on the internet, forever. Online is forever.

What people normally don't realize is that they are giving up pieces of information about themselves, who they are, where they live etc. unknowingly all the time. A simple search on Google can help find the bits and pieces of information that you've been giving away. And, since most people like to use the same username over multiple sites, it is easier to build a profile by connecting the pieces. Let me explain how.

Let's start off with Reddit, the front page of the internet. Visit a subreddit with the name of your geographical state and pick up a post with a user with a realistic-sounding username. Keep in mind that this is just normal browsing of a person's profile, and is not anything illegal. You can see the bio, the posts, and the comments they've made, and this alone should help to understand much about the person. As I said earlier, people tend to use similar usernames online. Now, all you have to do is just visit any service which checks up if a particular username is taken over different sites and put in the username. This will give you the list of websites, this person may be active on. What's left to do is visit each site and gather the rest of the pieces to build up the whole profile.

**IS THIS ILLEGAL?** Possibly. All this data is just there on the clear web, posted with the consent of the user. Gathering data is probably not illegal, but using it for malicious use, definitely is. **CAN THIS BE USED FOR MALICIOUS USE?** Highly possible. This data could be enough for identity thieves to build a profile and use it for their gain. Marketing sites may even possibly do this to send you random content. **SHOULD YOU GO AROUND DOING THIS? NO, ABSOLUTELY NOT.**

I know that anything on the internet stays on the internet, but scrub off whatever you can, and **PLEASE STOP POSTING PERSONAL CONTENT** on the internet. 100% privacy is definitely a myth, but we need to make sure that our private data stays private to whatever extent we can.
